title: "New website and new charger"
slug: warp4
date: 2026-06-01
tag: New

For some time now we have been working on the successor to the WARP3 charger. Unsurprisingly, it goes by the name WARP4. Today we give a first look at what is changing and what deliberately stays the same.
Pre-orders are possible from now on, and shipping begins at the end of June 2026.

# Proven features carried over
WARP4 carries over all the proven features of the WARP3 charger. This starts with the housing: despite considerably cheaper alternatives, we continue to rely on the thick-walled polyester housing we have used for years. Problems such as discoloration or even a breakdown of the housing material are simply unknown to us with this housing.

The visual trademark of our chargers is also retained: the stainless steel front panel, optionally additionally powder-coated. From the outside, the differences from the WARP3 are therefore small at first glance.

## Two differences visible from the outside
However, WARP4 has two differences from WARP3 that are visible from the outside:

### 1. Larger cable gland for data lines
Instead of the previously used M16 cable entry for data lines, there is now an M25 cable gland with a sealing plug for two data lines.
Thanks to the larger diameter, patch cables can now also be fed directly into the charger with the connector attached. With the double cable entry, a LAN cable and a control line for §14a EnWG can now also be fed into the housing very easily.

### 2. Viewing window for the electricity meter (Pro variant)
The WARP4 Charger Pro has a window through which the display of the electricity meter is now visible from the outside. The charger therefore no longer has to be opened to see the electricity meter. We use an electricity meter of the type ISKRA WM3M4.


## Variants
At launch, the charger will be available in the Smart and Pro variants. A Basic variant is dropped, as it may no longer be sold from 01/01/2027.


## Many changes inside
WARP4 feels familiar on the inside. As before, the charger is modular in design, so that components can be easily replaced and an upgrade is also possible. In detail, however, many things have changed:

### More space
We have created more room to make it easier to feed cables into the charger.

### New arrangement of the electricity meter
In the Pro variant, the electricity meter is now positioned sideways in the housing so that it is visible from the outside through the window in the housing.

### New charging technology
The biggest, though least conspicuous, difference lies in the charging technology. It is mounted on the DIN rail and still has the same connections as the technology of the WARP3, but was completely redeveloped. In addition to an update of the EVSE and ESP32, an additional module is now installed which is equipped with an ISO15118 modem.


## ISO15118
ISO15118 enables bidirectional communication with the vehicle. This allows the vehicle's state of charge (SoC) to be read out directly, so that charging processes and your own energy management can be controlled even more precisely. In addition, Autocharge is possible. Here, an attempt is made to uniquely identify the vehicle. Instead of having to grant charging authorization via NFC, vehicles that are allowed to charge at a charger can simply be added. In addition, the ISO15118-20 standard is the basis for bidirectional charging.
Here, the vehicle can be used as an energy storage for your own home. Not all of the technical conditions for this have been defined yet. However, we assume that the WARP4 Charger Pro is equipped on the hardware side for bidirectional charging and will receive this function in the future via a software update.


## New website and availability
At the same time as the release of WARP4, we have also completely overhauled our WARP website. We assume that the difference is immediately noticeable.
warp-charger.com now has its own shop: from now on, all WARP items (chargers, charging stands, accessories and spare parts) can be found directly in the new shop at shop.warp-charger.com.
Until now, we sold the chargers in the shop on our Tinkerforge website at shop.tinkerforge.com. From now on, only the Tinkerforge building-block system can be found in that shop.

Through the new shop, we are now accepting pre-orders for WARP4. Shipping of the chargers begins at the end of June 2026.

WARP3 can no longer be found in the new shop. However, an order is still possible by email or by phone. The spare parts for our chargers are of course excepted from this.
We offer spare parts for all chargers starting with WARP1 in the new shop.

## New WARP4 charging stand
We have also adapted the charging stand for WARP4. In addition to adjusting the drilling pattern, we have made the stand a little wider and a little deeper. This means that a large outdoor terminal enclosure with internal dimensions of 370x265x120mm (H×W×D) now fits into the stand. This makes it possible to install not only the terminals but also larger devices such as network switches or LTE routers, as well as surge protection.
